
mlidentd version 1.1                              29 Jun 2001
----------------------------------------------------------------------

mlidentd is a free ident server written in Standard ML by Tom 7.

This is part of my project to rewrite the untrustworthy standard
network daemons in a safe language (namely Standard ML), providing a
basic level of functionality at reasonable speed for the everyday
user, with many fewer security/stability risks than their C
counterparts have.

To learn more about Standard ML, visit http://standardml.org/.

ident is a basically worthless service. It was easy enough to write,
so I did it, but you probably don't want to run this or any other
ident server on your computer. Let this protocol die.

Like my other daemons, mlidentd probably only works under GNU/Linux on
x86, since that's the only platform supported by the ML compiler used.
I plan on abstracting the network interface so that it can be easily
ported to other compilers (such as TILT). mlidentd in particular uses
the /proc filesystem to read the users connected to particular ports,
so it will therefore be especially non-portable.

To build it you will need MLton, which you can get from:
http://www.sourcelight.com/MLton/
MLton is also Free software. mlidentd is known to build with version
20010706. It will not build with earlier versions.

Once you've installed MLton, "make" in the mlidentd directory should
build the program.

You'll get a binary called mlidentd. You can put this wherever you want,
and then invoke it (as root) from your startup scripts, or manually.

For a list of all the command line arguments. Specifying a "flag"
sets it to the opposite of the default. 

If you run mlidentd with the -inetd flag, it will read from stdin and
write to stdout, so that it can be run with inetd/tcpd. Add a line like
this to /etc/inetd.conf:

auth  stream  tcp     nowait  nobody
            /usr/sbin/tcpd      /usr/src/net/mlidentd/mlidentd -inetd

The only thing the identd server needs to do as root is open up a
privileged port, so if you run it on a different port, or run it
through inetd, it can run as anyone.

Note that if you run the server through inetd, it needs to read the
passwd file for each request. This might be inefficient for systems with
very many users. 

That's all there is to it! You can check /var/log/messages (or
wherever syslogd sends log messages) to see what's happening
on the server.

This daemon is not invincible; it is still in its young stages and
probably contains some bugs. For one thing, it makes no attempt to
throttle a user who might make 10,000 connections to the server.
However, at worst these kinds of problems result in denial-of-service,
never a compromise of the machine. You may be able to configure
inetd/tcpd to help against denial-of-service attacks.

The program is licensed for your use under the terms of the GNU Public
License; see the file COPYING for details. Note: Some source files may
be in the public domain and are explicitly marked.
