cc-lib                             Tom 7       14 Apr 2020

Like my more-involved "sml-lib", this is my attempt to get all of my
frequently used C++ libraries into a single place so that different
copies don't accumulate different changes.

I try to use portable style where possible to make compiling against
this easy. I hate complicated makefiles, actually basically all build
systems, library dependencies, autoconf, and that stuff. But ultimately
it's kind of complicated, you know?

As of 2020 I'm pretty much on C++17 everywhere now, so these libraries
may assume C++17 features and semantics. It's worth it. GCC 8 seems ok
for C++17, but I am now on at least 9.2 on every platform. On Windows,
I'm using x86_64-w64-mingw32-g++ again. On linux, just get the newest
GCC.

Some of what's here is google "base" libraries, since those are quite
useful and I know them well. They have been released multiple times
under open-source licenses; particularly the Apache 2.0 license, which
is in APACHE20. Googletest is the "new BSD" license, in gtest/LICENSE.
The Google Template Library in gtl/ is APACHE20.

Sean Barrett's excellently simple stb_* libraries are in the public
domain; see the notices at the tops of those files. I've made some
modifications to them. I've imported some other single-file libs and
modified them, like dr_wav.

Some of the numerical routines in randutil are based on Numpy. If you
believe that this is a "copy" or "substantial portion", then please
abide by Numpy's permissive license; see NUMPY.LICENSE.

The base64 and md5 code originally came from the public domain utilities;
I've only made light changes there, and let's call those public domain
as well.

The re2 subdirectory comes from Google and community contributors; see
re2/LICENSE for its permissive license.

The guitar subdirectory is based on some MIT-licensed data so my
contributions are as well; see guitar/LICENSE.txt.

The bignum subdirectory is based on BSD-licensed code; it and my
C++ wrapper are available under that license; see bignum/LICENSE.

My own fresh code is licensed under the GPL, which can be found in
COPYING.

These are more-or-less verbatim imports of other libraries:
base/        Google "base" library. APACHE20 license.
strings/     Google "strings" library. APACHE20 license.
             (XXX This should be deleted -- base already has stringprintf,
              the one thing in here. absl has good new string routines.)
sdl/         Utilities for my habits in SDL. Includes bitmap font rendering.
jdksmidi/    Baroque but thorough MIDI library, GPL.
city/        The excellent CityHash hash algorithm.
gtest/       Google testing library. New BSD license.
re2/         Local copy of a good, free Regular Expression library.
             See re2_test for example. Now you have two problems.
rapidjson/   Good fast JSON parser. See json_test for example. MIT license.
gtl/         Bits of the Google Template Library that have been released
             as open source (usually Apache 2.0).

wavesave      - Saves an array of audio samples as a WAV file. Limited input
                formats, though it is not hard to add more. See also dr_wav.
util          - General C++ utilities, accumulated throughout the ages. Some
                are pretty embarrassing and should be cleaned up/out.
heap          - Implementation of binary heaps.
textsvg       - Pretty trivial support for generating SVG files manually.
arcfour       - Implementation of the ARCFOUR (alleged RC4) algorithm, which
                is a fast and simple cryptographic-ish random stream generator.
timer         - Utterly trivial timer, in need of further development.
randutil      - Random number utilities, using arcfour for random byte
                generation.
vector-util   - Some basic utilities on vectors that only depend on portable
                stl.
rle           - (Custom) run-length encoding and decoding.
threadutil    - Utilities for threaded programming. These are mostly convenience
                methods; if you want to do anything fancy you'll probably want
                to be managing thread lifetimes yourself.
interval-tree - Stores intervals on a 1D number line, with an efficient query
                for intervals that contain a given point.
color-util    - Does that one thing you always need to do: Convert HSV to RGB.
lines         - Draw pixely lines using Bresenham's algorithm or anti-aliased
                lines using Wu's algorithm.
base64        - Very simple base64 encoding and decoding.
bounds        - Simple bounding box implementation, typically used for
                generating plots of data
image         - Headless representation of RGBA images. Load and save various
                formats via stb library, but also simple graphics primitives.
                I often use this for generating images programmatically.
webserver     - Simple embeddable webserver that works on win32 and linux.
simpledxf     - Simple and incomplete parser for DXF (CAD) files. This
                file format is insanely complex, but this does some
                superficial parsing that may work for extracting basic
                geometry.
crypt/        - Simple implementations of cryptographic algorithms like AES,
                SHA256 and (deprecated) MD5. Perhaps arcfour should be in here
                too.
pi/           - Some code for working on the raspberry pi, particularly
                for doing GPIO.
bignum/       - Simple arbitrary-precision integers and rationals (BSD-like
                license). Not as fast as GMP, but easier to compile!
guitar/       - Guitar chord fingering database.
