
----------------------------------------------------------------------

mlftpd version 1.6                                 25 Jul 2003

mlftpd is a Free FTP server written in Standard ML by Tom Murphy 7.

I rewrote this daemon so I wouldn't need to worry about a very large
class of security exploits known as buffer overflows (also formatting
bugs and some others). ML is a safe language, which makes this kind of
bug impossible to write. ML is also garbage collected, which makes
unbounded memory consumption (memory leaks) much less likely. It also
happens to be very powerful and pleasurable to program in!

To learn more about Standard ML, visit http://standardml.org/.

I've also kept this ftpd simple, because I believe most users do
not need the extra features that standard GNU/Linux distributions
include in their network daemons. This daemon is baseline FTP support;
sites which need advanced features can hopefully afford to devote time
to managing security. "Secret" features like SITE EXEC and filename
globbing have been known to be other sources of security holes and
Denial Of Service attacks. To minimize incompatibilities and
misunderstood invariants often involved in interfacing with other
software, mlftpd does not have many external dependencies. It includes
its own "ls" functionality and MD5 /etc/shadow support.

mlftpd probably only works under GNU/Linux on x86, but mlton supports
some other platforms so it may work there, too. I plan to rewrite this
software to use the new 2002 ML Basis Library, at which point it will
be portable to other compilers.

To build it you will need MLton, which you can get from:
http://mlton.org/
MLton is also Free software. mlftpd is known to build with version
20030716. It won't build with earlier versions.

You'll also need my "sml-lib". You can get this from sourceforge through
CVS:

cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.tom7misc.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/tom7misc login
(juts hit enter -- there's no password for anonymous)
cvs -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.tom7misc.sourceforge.net:/cvsroot/tom7misc co sml-lib

mlftpd expects the library source to be in /usr/src/sml-lib. If it's
not, just change mlftpd.cm to reference the new location.

Once you've installed MLton and sml-lib, "make" in the mlftpd
directory should build the program.

You'll get a binary called mlftpd. You can put this wherever you want,
and then invoke it (as root) from your startup scripts, or manually.

Currently, you need to provide your server's IP address as a parameter
in order for passive transfers to work. So you'll probably invoke
the server like this:

./mlftpd -localhost 128.2.11.213

Type:

./mlftpd -help

For a list of all the command line arguments. Specifying a "flag"
sets it to the opposite of the default. You probably also want
to specify a "site".

You can also run mlftpd through inetd by specifying the -inetd
parameter. Add a line like this to your /etc/inetd.conf (all on one
line):

ftp     stream  tcp     nowait  root    
     /usr/sbin/tcpd  /usr/src/net/mlftpd/mlftpd -inetd 
             -site spacebar.org -localhost 128.2.194.11

Running through inetd/tcpd is less efficient (the program needs
to start up each time someone connects), but you might want to
use some of inetd's special features, such as IP-based filtering.

That's all there is to it! You can check /var/log/messages (or
wherever syslogd sends log messages) to see what's happening
on the server.

This daemon is not invincible; it is still in its young stages and
probably contains some bugs. For one thing, it makes no attempt to
throttle a user who might make 10,000 connections to the server.
However, at worst these kinds of problems result in denial-of-service,
never a compromise of the machine. You might be able to coax
inetd/tcpd into protecting you against some of these kinds of attacks.

The program is licensed for your use under the terms of the GNU Public
License; see the file COPYING for details. Note: Some source files
are in the public domain (the MD5 implementation), and are explicitly
marked.
